---
title: Creating my own CLI Tool - Towles Tool
description: "Info about creating my own CLI tool and best practices"
date: 2025-06-07
image:
  src: /images/blog/desk-with-tool-of-universe-open-at-desk.png
  alt: "Screenshot of VS Code configured for prompt engineering at a desk"

  # generated: with fooocus Styles 'Fooocus Enhance', 'SAI Fantasy Art', 'SAI Comic Book'
  # prompt: Screenshot of VS Code configured for prompt engineering at a desk

authors:
  - name: Chris Towles
    to: https://twitter.com/Chris_Towles
    avatar:
      src: /images/ctowles-profile-512x512.png

badge:
  label: AI Tools
---

Starting this post as the kick off of again re-creating `towles-tool`, my public best practices or DIY repo. I've had private repos for years with my alias or helper scripts and notes but never made them public. After a few conversations with my brother Patrick and my wife, I decided to make this one public.


## Why Python?

I wanted to use Python instead of Typescript for this project for a few reasons:

- At work, I am the Principal Architect on the Cloud AI services team at GE Aerospace and we use Python for most of our AI/ML work. And while I'm a super fan of TypeScript and [Anthony Fu](https://antfu.me/), [Daniel Roe](https://roe.dev/), [Evan You](https://evanyou.me/), and [Boshen](https://boshen.dev/) have done an amazing job with the ecosystem, Python has a few advantages for AI/ML work:
  - More popular in the AI/ML community - Python is the most popular language for AI/ML and has a large community of developers and researchers.
  - Better support for scientific computing - Python has a number of libraries for scientific computing that are not available in other languages.
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) An extremely fast Python package and project manager, written in Rust.
  - It's like Poetry but faster. It has a number of features that make it a great choice for managing Python projects.
  - Previously, I tried Poetry and pyenv virtualenv, but uv is way easier to use and faster.
- The number of peers that have Python as their primary language means getting them to install Node and npm is a barrier to entry.
- While I should likely use Rust like my brother Patrick would prefer, Python still has the edge when it comes to AI/ML work.


## Why a CLI tool?

I wanted to create a CLI tool for a few reasons:
- I use the command line a lot and wanted to create a tool that would make my life easier.
- I already have a number of alias and helper scripts that I use on a regular basis, but in TypeScript or Bash.
- I already use Python for a number of tasks.
- I'll find an fzf or fzf equivalent for Python CLI lists like I'm used to in my TypeScript CLI tools.



## First Steps

After pushing this repo the first steps are the following:


- create github issues
- create pypi project
- publish first version
- setup github actions for ci/cd
- test and document usage
- create version cli commands
- publish first version



## Release

The repo is now public:



https://github.com/ChrisTowles/towles-tool


Excited to get started on this journey and share my best practices with the world. Stay tuned for more updates!
